INTRODUCTION TO R FOR DATA SCIENCE  PURDUE UNIVERSITY
Description: Work with airline data to learn the fundamentals of the R platform.
We live in a data-driven world. This course is relevant to learners who are interested in analyzing data that is pervasive across disciplines.
Have you ever wondered how data-driven decisions are made across airlines? This course will use airline data to demonstrate key concepts involved in the analysis of big data.
The emphasis of this course is on using the R platform to manage data. No prerequisites are necessary. Beginners in using R are welcome. The course serves are an introduction to the R software and lays the foundation for any learners who would like to begin studying data science and its applications.
The introductory material here prepares students to take more advanced courses related to data science, such as machine learning and computational statistics.

What topics will you cover?:
Downloading, installing, and using the R platform, including R studio
Importing and visualizing data
Concepts from R, including vectors, functions, data frames, strings, dates, and lists
Transforming, cleaning, and verifying data
The suite of apply functions
Case study of ASA DataExpo 2009 “Airline on-time performance”

What will you achieve?:
By the end of the course, you will be able to:
Import data into R and visualize data
Use vectors and vectorized functions, including some of the apply functions
Manipulate data into desired formats, including cleaning and verifying data
Predict business performance
Make data-driven decisions about your industry
Perform an import of data into R
Utilize vectors and vectorized functions, including some of the apply functions
Utilize basic data structures such as data frames, strings, dates, lists, etc.
Duration: 4 weeks - 4hrs/week

Who is the course for?
Learners are expected to download, install, and use the R platform. Prior knowledge or experience with the R software is not necessary.

What software or tools do you need?
Learners are expected to download, install, and use the R platform. A desktop or laptop computer is also needed to take this course as opposed to a mobile device.

Who will you learn with?: Mark Daniel Ward
Mark is an Associate Professor, and Undergraduate Chair at Department of Statistics, Purdue University, and Associate Director for the NSF Center for Science of Information.

Completed 12 June 2017
